---
layout: post
title:  Day One
categories: [content, demo]
---
# Day one
Today was the first day of classes for DHSI. However, before our classes started we attended a lecture about music encoding and lazy machines. The main focus of the lecture was about machine learning. The lecturer is a leading researcher in the field, Ichiro Fujinaga who works at McGill University. Fujinaga talked about his time working on a project called SIMSSA or the Single Interface for Music Score Searching and Analysis project. He talked about how the team that developed it used KNN or K nearest neighbor to teach the program how to differentiate notes, staff lines, text, and background. K nearest neighbor is a type of machine learning where if the program is given a data set on a graph, and an unknown point is given then it will find the nearest point, which is often the same type of thing. He also talked about different types of ways data is stored (Database, Data warehouse, Data Lake etc.). After the lecture we attended our first class section, which was mostly introductions to the professor teaching my course (Text encoding fundamentals and their application) and the other students from the class. What was interesting to me was the range of people in the class from librarians who worked in the DH field, to PhD students working on projects that might include text encoding, to me. An undergraduate English major who took the class just because it seemed interesting. The first text encoding adjacent thing we learned was the concept of “boxing in” different aspects of a document.  When I say “boxing in”, I mean separating different aspects from a text here we literally drew color coded boxes around them. The document we worked on was a letter from Dale Cox, an Akron based lawyer with season tickets to the Cleveland browns. The letter was concerning a trend amongst Browns fans to make paper airplanes out of programs given out. Mr.Cox was worried that these airplanes might hit someone in the eyes or ears causing damage (a valid concern). However, the letter was incredibly passive aggressive to the Browns organization. A representative from the Browns organization responded with “Attached is a letter that we received on November 19, 1974. I feel that you should be aware that some a*****e (I have taken the liberty to censor the cuss here but it was not censored in the letter) is signing your name to some very stupid letters.” We talked about how the paragraphs were different from the letterhead, how the signature was a different type of writing than the typeface in the letter. However, we also talked about how in Cox’s letter he names several different positions at the game (Fans, Ushers, Police men etc.). This “boxing in” is the same idea as text encoding. We then broke for lunch, when we came back we started discussing how to take this process from paper to a computer. We learned some basics of XML which include different tags for different aspects like a paragraph or a heading. We also learned about the technical way to make these tags which use the less then and greater than symbols as parentheses. I am excited to actually start working on encoding tomorrow. I’m still unsure of what my main project will be for the class, but I have started to think about maybe doing either ‘The Raven” or “The Cask of Amontillado” both by Edgar Allen Poe. 
