---
layout: post
title:  Day Four
categories: [content, demo]
---

Today was the fourth day of classes at DHSI. This morning we talked about schema customization. As a reminder, a schema is a sort of masterlist of elements and how they can be used. The default TEI schema has almost six hundred elements, for most projects this is too many. For example, my project is Edgar Allen Poe’s “The Cask of Amontillado” and the typical TEI schema has elements like speaker headings which are only used in drama. Obviously, I will not use this element in my encoding. By making a custom schema, I won’t be inundated with elements I won't use and it will hopefully speed up by encoding time by a lot. 
	After lunch we learned about elements that help with interpretations and analysis. One of the things I’m interested in when encoding this text is to see how often alcohol is mentioned. The way that I did that before was to take a generic element <seg> which is basically just a segment of text, and attached an attribute that just said “alcohol”. It did work, but that was only a temporary fix. The new way to do this is to make a note that adds an ID to alcohol with a description of what alcohol is. Then, I kept that <seg> tag but instead of each instance having the attribute “alcohol” now each time it is mentioned it points to one note. We also looked at project management things like: choosing a text to encoding, finding funding, finding people to help with encoding, etc. We also looked at several other TEI projects like a map of london, a charles darwin correspondence project, and a project about gay liberation that our instructor worked on. Even though my encoding doesn’t do anything at the moment I’m still proud of the work that I’ve done. I’m excited to look at more TEI projects so I can be inspired for the future.
