---
layout: post
title:  Day Three
categories: [content, demo]
---

Today was day three of classes here at DHSI. Today we did more encoding and learned more aspects that we can use in our encoding projects. In the morning we spent most of the time reviewing important topics we learned in yesterday’s class time, like file paths and adding XML ids. The bulk of what we did today was after lunch. We talked about manuscript encoding. How to add things where a writer might have crossed something out in a handwritten text and added something else. We also talked about options about outdated spelling or even spelling mistakes. This was extremely useful to me because there was a word in “The Cask of Amontillado” I did not know and had assumed was an french or italian word for cloak. The word is “roquelaire”, which actually turned out to be an outdated spelling of the word “roquelaure” which is not only a commune in France, but also a knee length cloak common in the era that the story takes place in. We also talked about the schemas (which makes sure that people’s encoding are correct) and headers. Headers are what provide copyright and bibliographic information about the encoded text. It not only tells people the copyright information about the text, but also the encoding that has taken place. I currently have in my header that people can use my encoding as long as I am given credit, although currently I do not have plans to put this encoded text anywhere because I don’t know how. The header can also be used to show who did what in a project and a version list of the document. The instructor of our course showed us a project they worked on and the header was almost two thousand lines long because of this. Tomorrow we will work on making our own schemas so we are not overwhelmed by the amount of tags that we can use. I think that it will be interesting to learn and I’m excited for it. 
