---
layout: post
title:  Day Two
categories: [content, demo]
---
Today was the second day of classes for DHSI. Today, we actually started to encode text. We started by looking at basic tags for texts. We practiced on the letters I wrote about yesterday (the ones about the Cleveland Browns). We broke them into three main segments: opener, paragraphs, and closer. However, inside these segments individual words could be tagged. For example, whenever I saw proper nouns I tagged them accordingly (Place names, people, objects etc.). After we made sure that our encoding was valid, which means that the computer checks our tags against a master list of rules about the TEI (Text Encoding Initiative) standard, which is called a schema. After we did that we started to look at our own documents. I decided that I am going to work on “The Cask of Amontillado” as prose is easier to encode than poetry, due to the TEI rules about meter. The first thing I did was start with a small chunk of the first page, about four paragraphs. I broke them down into paragraphs, and I tagged the people and places like I did in the letters. I also wanted to see how often Poe references alcohol or being drunk in the story, so I decided to tag each time alcohol or drunkenness is mentioned. I tagged it as alcohol, and so far I have found 6 instances of this tag. I also wanted to track insults within the text as the inciting incident of the story is that Montressor (the narrator and main character) was insulted by Fortunato (spoiler alert) the man who is entombed at the end of the story. Here is an image of what the encoding looks like!
After lunch we talked about absolute and relative paths. Absolute paths look like URLs for websites, and this means that your computer starts from the absolute beginning of your computer’s system. Then, it goes segment by segment to the desired file. Relative paths are like a shortcut, they start at the file you are on and go back as little as they can to find the file you want. In text encoding this can be used to link two documents together, which is why we learned about absolute and relative paths. To link two files together we learned about XML ids, which are unique identification for just about whatever you would want. We used these XML ids to make “personographys” or a list of people related to or in our documents. “The Cask of Amontillado” only has two characters, Montressor and Fortunato. So I decided to also add Edgar Allen Poe to my list so it would be just a little bit more full. I’m excited to get to work more on my document tomorrow and in the coming days.
